README.md, before:

# CoffeeMachine
CoffeeMachine Rest API and Console APP implementation in GoLang used for learning GoLang.

## Endpoints and Commands
#### Endpoints REST API version CoffeeMachine has endpoint:
>
> - for initializing
>  - /coffeemachine
> - for checking status of ingredient and updating Ingredient model
>  - /coffeemachine/ingredient
> - for checking status of money and updating money based on Denomination model    
>  - /coffeemachine/money
> - for checking all available drinks, adding them and consuming them   
>  - /coffeemachine/drinks
> -  /coffeemachine/swagger/index.html swagger endpoint in restAPIv2

#### Console APP version CoffeeMachine has command structure:

>
> - for initializing 
>  - coffeemachine subcommand
> - for checking status of ingredient and updating Ingredient model
>  - ingredient subcommand
> - for checking status of money and updating money based on Denomination model    
>  - money subcommand
> - for checking all available drinks, adding them and consuming them   
>  - drinks subcommand

## Models

Models have tests inside their folder/package which can be run with command:
go test internal\models

```
//model used for initializing machine
cofeeMachineController struct {
	Ingredients models.Ingredient
	Money       models.Denomination
}

//model used for adding Ingredient to the machine and internally consuming it
type Ingredient struct {
	Water       int
	Milk        int
	Sugar       int
	CoffeeBeans int
	TeaBeans    int
	Cups        int
}

//model used for adding drinks
Drink struct {
	Water       int
	Milk        int
	Sugar       int
	CoffeeBeans int
	TeaBeans    int
	Cups        int
	Money       float64
}

//model used for updating money and consuming drink
Denomination struct {
	Half  int
	One   int
	Two   int
	Five  int
	Ten   int
	Total float64
}
```
## Running CoffeeMachineRestApi

Same is for CoffeeMachineRestApiV1 and CoffeeMachineRestApiV2
Run command in cmd/CoffeeMachineRestApi
```
go build -o coffeeMachine.exe main.go
```
and run coffeeMachine.exe

API is running in localhost:3000
(port will be customizable in future refactor)

Postman collection can be used for testing or just go to swagger endpoint in CoffeeMachineRestApiV2.
Metrics endpoint is exposed on /metrics 
Health endpoint is exposed on /coffeemachine/health
Logging level can be set with environment variable "LOG_LEVEL" in runtime

## Running CoffeeMachineConsole

Run command in cmd/CoffeeMachineConsoleV1 or cmd/CoffeeMachineConsoleV3
```
go build -o coffeeMachine.exe main.go
```
and run coffeeMachine.exe

APP is running in local a console, commands are shown in console (or from help command in v3)
and example jsons for commands can be taken from postman collection


## Docker

Currently, building Dockerfile from deployments/apiVersion/Dockerfile

Run BuildDocker.ps1 in api folder to automatically build docker image - if you previously set: Set-ExecutionPolicy unrestricted

Or just run BuildDocker.bat

After that you can run this docker image for example on some other port like this:
```
docker run -p 3002:3000 github.com/kostovic/coffeemachine/restapiv2:0.9.0
```
restapiv2.0 is running in production mode by default

## Docker Compose

Docker Compose file is set in deployment/DockerCompose
Edit .env file to change variables from docker-compose file and then to run in detached mode run first command and to stop second command:
```
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose down
```
More in README.md in DockerCompose folder

## HELM chart

CoffeeMachineChart is Kubernetes set of yamls with own rules how to deploy to local or external cluster. Edit HELM/CoffeeMachineChart/values.yaml for more options and run or delete release with:

```
helm install my-release .
helm delete my-release
```

More in README.md in HELM/CoffeeMachineChart folder

Commit message:

- added v3 version of application with repository layer in GORM and postgres implementation for db with gorm
- Implemented additional models for DB and functions for ease of life
- implemented viper as config management tool
- added sirupsen logger implementation
- added postgres in req for V3 and in deployments
- updated swagger with new endpoints:
 	- added drinks/deactivate (soft delete) and drinks/activate (reactivate) drinks endpoints
	- added removal of once initialized coffeemachine

README.md, after:

<CoffeeMachine PoC software in golang>
Copyright (C) <2024>  <Krešimir Ostović>

# CoffeeMachine
CoffeeMachine Rest API and Console APP implementation in GoLang used for learning GoLang.

## Endpoints and Commands
#### Endpoints REST API version CoffeeMachine has endpoint:
>
> - for initializing
>  - /coffeemachine
> - for checking status of ingredient and updating Ingredient model
>  - /coffeemachine/ingredient
> - for checking status of money and updating money based on Denomination model    
>  - /coffeemachine/money
> - for checking all available drinks, adding them and consuming them   
>  - /coffeemachine/drinks
> -  /coffeemachine/swagger/index.html swagger endpoint in restapiv3

#### Console APP version CoffeeMachine has command structure:

>
> - for initializing 
>  - coffeemachine subcommand
> - for checking status of ingredient and updating Ingredient model
>  - ingredient subcommand
> - for checking status of money and updating money based on Denomination model    
>  - money subcommand
> - for checking all available drinks, adding them and consuming them   
>  - drinks subcommand

## Models

Models have tests inside their folder/package which can be run with command:
go test internal\models

```
//model used for initializing machine
cofeeMachineController struct {
	Ingredients models.Ingredient
	Money       models.Denomination
}

//model used for adding Ingredient to the machine and internally consuming it
type Ingredient struct {
	Water       int
	Milk        int
	Sugar       int
	CoffeeBeans int
	TeaBeans    int
	Cups        int
}

//model used for adding drinks
Drink struct {
	Water       int
	Milk        int
	Sugar       int
	CoffeeBeans int
	TeaBeans    int
	Cups        int
	Money       float64
}

//model used for updating money and consuming drink
Denomination struct {
	Half  int
	One   int
	Two   int
	Five  int
	Ten   int
	Total float64
}
```
## Running CoffeeMachineRestApi

Same is for CoffeeMachineRestApiV1 and CoffeeMachineRestApiV3
Run command in cmd/CoffeeMachineRestApi
```
go build -o coffeeMachine.exe main.go
```
and run coffeeMachine.exe

API is running in localhost:3000
(port will be customizable in future refactor)

Postman collection can be used for testing or just go to swagger endpoint in CoffeeMachineRestApiV3.
Metrics endpoint is exposed on /metrics 
Health endpoint is exposed on /coffeemachine/health
Logging level can be set with environment variable "LOG_LEVEL" in runtime

## Running CoffeeMachineConsole

Run command in cmd/CoffeeMachineConsoleV1 or cmd/CoffeeMachineConsoleV3
```
go build -o coffeeMachine.exe main.go
```
and run coffeeMachine.exe

APP is running in local a console, commands are shown in console (or from help command in v3)
and example jsons for commands can be taken from postman collection


## Docker

Currently, building Dockerfile from deployments/apiVersion/Dockerfile

Run BuildDocker.ps1 in api folder to automatically build docker image - if you previously set: Set-ExecutionPolicy unrestricted

Or just run BuildDocker.bat

After that you can run this docker image for example on some other port like this:
```
docker run -p 3000:3000 github.com/kostovic/coffeemachine/restapiv3:0.10.0
```
restapiv3.0 is running in production mode by default

## Docker Compose

Docker Compose file is set in deployment/DockerCompose
Edit .env file to change variables from docker-compose file and then to run in detached mode run first command and to stop second command:
```
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose down
```
More in README.md in DockerCompose folder

## HELM chart

CoffeeMachineChart is Kubernetes set of yamls with own rules how to deploy to local or external cluster. Edit HELM/CoffeeMachineChart/values.yaml for more options and run or delete release with:

```
helm install my-release .
helm delete my-release
```

More in README.md in HELM/CoffeeMachineChart folder



This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details or check LICENSE 
file in root of this repository.
